CURB-65 community-acquired pneumonia severity

In order to identify the severity of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), a severity assessment tool was proposed by the British Thoracic Society and later, for simplicity, modified. The tool was developed mainly as a means of identifying patients with severe CAP at high risk of mortality. It relies on four easily measurable clinical features: mental confusion, respiratory rate, diastolic blood pressure, and blood urea. These features enable the tool to stratify the patients with CAP into mortality risk groups.

These features are used as threshold values; the "CURB" severity score is calculated by measuring:
	•	Mental Confusion - measured by the Abbreviated Mental Test Score (AMTS) (assessment scales in dementia reference) is a 10-item scale assessing orientation, registration, recall, and concentration. If the result of the test is 9 or less, it counts as one point.
	•	Blood Urea - reveals how well the kidney is working. If in this case the Blood Urea scores > 7.5 mmol/l, it is considered a point
	•	Respiratory rate - the number of breaths a person takes per minute, measured at rest. If higher than or equal to 31/min, it is considered one positive point.
	•	Low Blood Pressure - diastolic blood preassure =< 62 mm Hg or systolic blood pressure < 92 mm Hg scores one point.

In addition, tests showed that age contributes a lot, so if the patient is 65 or older, it gives an additional 1 point.

For each feature, one point is given. Based on the score, the risk group is assessed.

Score 0 or 1 -> GROUP 1 - Mortality low 1.5%
Score 2 -> GROUP 2 - Mortality intermediate 9.2%
Score 3 or more-> GROUP 3 - Mortality high 22%

The following treatment options are suggested per group:
GROUP 1 - Likely suitable for home treatment
GROUP 2 - Consider hospital-supervised treatment: either short stay inpatient or hospital-supervised outpatient
GROUP 3 - Manage in hospital as severe pneumonia; assess for ICU admission, especially if CURB-65 score = 4 or 5

Modeling assumptions used for this experiment:
Numeric input: confusion, urea_above_7, resp_rate_ge_30, systolic, diastolic
Boolean input: age_ge_65